Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?

 we need Data structures provide a means to manage large amounts of data efficiently for uses such as large databases
 and internet indexing services. Usually, efficient data structures are key to designing efficient algorithms.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
 Various operations can be performed on different data structures such as creation,insertion,
      deletion,searching,sorting,traversing,merging,appending & updating
      Basic Operation on Data Structures:
      Insertion − Add a new data item in the data structure .
      Deletion − Delete an existing data item from the data structure.
      Traversal − Access each data item exactly once so that it can be processed.
      Searching − Find out the location of the data item if it exists in the data structure
      Sorting − Arranging the data items in some order.

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?

The name of areas are:Compiler Design,Operating System,Database Management System,Statistical analysis package,
      Numerical Analysis,Graphics,Artificial Intelligence,Simulation

what is an Array?

 An array is a container object that holds a fixed number of values of a single type.
what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?

what is LinkedList?
The LinkedList class is a collection which can contain many objects of the same type, just like the ArrayList .
 The LinkedList class has all of the same methods as the ArrayList class because they both implement the List interface.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
An array is a collection of elements of a similar data type. Linked List is an ordered collection of elements
of the same type in which each element is connected to the next using pointers.

what is queue?

A queue is another common data structure that places elements in a sequence, similar to a stack. A queue uses
the FIFO method (First In First Out), by which the first element that is enqueued will be the first one to be dequeued.

what is stack?

The stack is a linear data structure that is used to store the collection of objects. It is based on Last-In-First-Out (LIFO).

what is FIFO and LIFO?

LIFO is an abbreviation for Last in, first out is same as fist in, last out (FILO). It is a method for handling
      data structures where the last element is processed first and the first element is processed last.

what is the order of complexity?

Complexity can be constant, logarithmic, linear, n*log(n), quadratic, cubic, exponential, etc. This is respectively
the order of constant, logarithmic, linear and so on, number of steps, are executed to solve a given problem.


what is the best case to search an element from an array?
Sequential search is the best that we can do when trying to find a value in an unsorted array. [1]
 But if the array is sorted in increasing order by value, then we can do much better. We use a process called binary search.


what is the worst case to search an element from an array?

The worst case complexity is O(n/2) (equivalent to O(n)) when element is in the middle or not present in the array.

what is tree in data structure?

A tree is a nonlinear data structure, compared to arrays, linked lists, stacks and queues which are linear data structures.
 A tree can be empty with no nodes or a tree is a structure consisting of one node called the root and zero or one or more subtrees.

what is graph in data structure?
A graph is a pictorial representation of a set of objects where some pairs of objects are connected by links. The
interconnected objects are represented by points termed as vertices, and the links that connect the vertices are called edges.

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?

HashMap is non synchronized. It is not-thread safe and can't be shared between many threads without proper synchronization
code whereas Hashtable is synchronized. HashMap allows one null key and multiple null values whereas Hashtable doesn't allow any null key or value.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.

1. RDBMS Array (i.e. Array of structures)
      2. Network data model Graph
      3. Hierarchical data model Trees.


How HashMap works in java?

 HashMap in Java works on hashing principles. It is a data structure which allows us to store object and retrieve
 it in constant time O(1) provided we know the key. In hashing, hash functions are used to link key and value in HashMap.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?

The ArrayIndexOutOfBounds exception is thrown if a program tries to access an array index that is negative,
greater than, or equal to the length of the array. The ArrayIndexOutOfBounds exception is a run-time exception.
Java's compiler does not check for this error during compilation.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?

There are mainly four different ways to copy all elements of one array into another array in Java.

      1. Manually
      2. Arrays.copyOf()
      3. System.arraycopy()
      4. Object.clone()

What is difference between an array and a linked list?

An array is a collection of elements of a similar data type. Linked List is an ordered collection of
 elements of the same type in which each element is connected to the next using pointers. Array elements
  can be accessed randomly using the array index. Random accessing is not possible in linked lists.

What is DFS and BFS?

Depth First Search (DFS) algorithm traverses a graph in a depthward motion and uses a stack to remember
      to get the next vertex to start a search when a dead end occurs in any iteration.
      Breadth First Search (BFS) algorithm traverses a graph in a breadthward motion and uses a queue
      to remember to get the next vertex to start a search when a dead end occurs in any iteration.

What is Recursion?

Recursion is the technique of making a function call itself. This technique provides a way
 to break complicated problems down into simple problems which are easier to solve.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?

 In linear data structure, data elements are sequentially connected and each element is traversable through a single
      run. In non-linear data structure, data elements are hierarchically connected and are present at various levels.

What is Big-(O)-notation?

A theoretical measure of the execution of an algorithm, usually the time or memory needed, given the problem
 size n, which is usually the number of items. Informally, saying some equation f(n) = O(g(n)) means it is less
 than some constant multiple of g(n). The notation is read, "f of n is big oh of g of n".

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
Bubble sort and Insertion sort – Quick sort, Heap sort, Merge sort, Selection sort

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.